seth-expanderctl(8) -- management program for seth-expander
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__seth-expanderctl__ _COMMAND_

__Commands:__

  * `help`:
    Show help message
  * `queue-depth`:
    display the aggregate queue backlog
  * `queue-status`:
    show the backlog and consumer count for each vnode queue
  * `node-status`:
    show the status of the nodes in the cluster
  * `log-level`:
    sets the log level of all nodes in the cluster

## DESCRIPTION

Seth-expanderctl is a management program that allows
you to get status information or change the logging
verbosity (without restarting). seth-expanderctl has
the following commands:

* __seth-expanderctl help__
prints usage.
* __seth-expanderctl queue-depth__
Shows the total number of messages in the queues.
* __seth-expanderctl queue-status__
Show the number of messages in each queue. This is mainly of use when
debugging a Seth Expander cluster.
* __seth-expanderctl log-level LEVEL__
Sets the log level on a running Seth Expander or cluster.
If you suspect that a worker process is stuck, as long as you are using
clustered operation, you can simply kill the worker process and it will
be restarted by the master process.

## SEE ALSO

__seth-expander-cluster__(8)
__seth-solr__(8)

Full documentation for Seth and seth-server is located on the seth
wiki, http://wiki.opscode.com/display/seth/Home.

## AUTHOR

Seth was written by Adam Jacob <adam@ospcode.com> of Opscode
(http://www.opscode.com),  with contributions from the community. This
manual page was created by Nuo Yan <nuo@opscode.com>. Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the
terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the Apache 2.0 License  can  be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses/Apache-2.0.
